# Presentation
This repository contains the source code of the Streamlit application developed for my master’s thesis. The repository containing the full work on the thesis itself is currently private.

To provide some context, my master's thesis focuses on the detection of metaphors in Kant's practical philosophy. To this end, we first attempt to identify content words that are used with a concrete meaning or whose meaning may indicate a thematic shift within a paragraph relative to the domain of practical philosophy.

For this purpose, we extracted lists of nouns, adjectives, and verbs from the following vocabulary book:

> Raymond-Fred NIEMANN, _Les mots allemands: Deutsch-französischer Wortschatz nach Sachgruppen_, Paris, 1997

In this work, vocabulary is organized by thematic categories. Using computational methods, we generated lists of nouns, verbs, and adjectives grouped by theme. We also created metadata indicating, for each word, all the thematic categories in which it appears in Niemann's book, since many words are polysemous and may belong to several themes.

Among these themes, we selected those that appeared to be relatively distant from practical philosophy and from Kant's treatment of the subject. We then detect words belonging to the selected themes on a paragraph-by-paragraph basis. The detection process relies on the predicted lemmas and parts of speech of the words in a paragraph rather than on their surface orthographic forms.

The present application is intended to support a pilot annotation and evaluation phase of the results obtained through our detection process. At this stage, no definitive nor strict annotation criteria or guidelines have been established. One of the main objectives of this initial annotation phase is precisely to gain a better understanding of our requirements, to help refine the research questions, identify relevant criteria, and clarify what should count as a metaphorical expression in the context of Kant's practical philosophy.

For each paragraph selected for this pilot annotation and evaluation phase, we automatically generate a JSON file containing general information about the paragraph, as well as data and results from our detection process. These JSON files are intended to be loaded into the application.

The JSON files located in the `pilot/Templates` directory are generated by our pipeline and include fields that are meant to be completed by the annotator. The JSON files in the `pilot/Reviewed` directory correspond to partially or fully annotated versions produced through the application. These files can be downloaded repeatedly in order to iteratively refine and update the annotations.

# Use
Donwload a JSON file from the `pilot` directory, either from `Templates` or `Reviewed` on your computer.

Then load that file in the streamlit app [here](https://appforkant-smetaphorsannotation-4zfixsg2qy6zshxmds3vbc.streamlit.app/).

# Main functionalities

The application provides the following functionalities:

## 1. Paragraph-level annotation interface

- Display the original German text with highlighted semantic tokens
- Toggle visibility of content tokens that are not candidates for the annotation
- Add unselected semantic tokens to the candidate token in order to annotate them: This is useful for what can be considered false negatives.

**Note:** In our work, a candidate tokens is a semantic token that has either been detected through our computational process or that has been added by the annotator when they judge the token should be annotated for its metaphoricity. We say “candidate tokens”, as a token can be relevant in many ways, despite not necessarily being metaphorical. Every semantic token can be added to the candidates tokens.

## 2. Token-level annotation interface

- Toggle visibility of all candidate tokens vs tokens that were not deemed as lexically irrelevant

### Metaphor annotation
- Annotate tokens with
  - lexical relevance
  - contextual shift
  - contribution to a "textual image"
  - metaphorical status
- Attach free-text comments to each decision

### Metadata

- Linguistic validation support
  - spaCy-based POS and lemma verification
  - manual correction fields
  - syntactic group visualization
 
- Lexical resource exploration
  - German Wiktionary API lookup
  - DWDS lexical database checks

- Translation and alignment evaluation
  - Evaluation of sentence alignment between German and French translations
  - Optional correction of misaligned sentences
  - Display of token-level translation



